Keystone vote set to pass U.S.
House Friday   move on to Senate
House of Representatives likely to OK pipeline for 9th time   Senate may then do the same
The Keystone XL pipeline to ship Canadian oil to the US.
Keystone XL vote in US.
The Republican-controlled House is on track to easily pass a bill Friday to approve the Keystone XL oil pipeline, and this time, the Senate may follow.
The bill marks the ninth attempt by the House to secure approval of the pipeline, which has been repeatedly delayed by environmental reviews, legal challenges to its route and politics.
Prior votes in the Senate on the issue have failed to get enough votes, but supporters said Thursday they were close to reaching that threshold
WATCH: Amanda Lang   Neil McDonald discuss the 2 Keystone votes
Both the GOP and Senate Democrats hope the votes will give an edge to their party's candidate in the Louisiana Senate race, where Republican Rep.
While Landrieu pushed for the vote planned in the Senate next week, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky credited the Republican sponsor, Sen.
Hoeven in the Senate, and Congressman Cassidy in the House, said McConnell
Hoeven also knows that Keystone would also have almost zero net effect on our climate
Even if the measure passes the Senate, it may hit a dead end at the White House, which has repeatedly issued veto threats on the bills to expedite or force the President Barack Obama's hand on the issue.
The White House stopped short of directly threatening a veto of the Keystone legislation.
The 1,700-kiloemetre project is proposed to go from Canada through Montana and South Dakota to Nebraska, where it would connect with existing pipelines to carry more than 830,000 barrels of crude oil a day to refineries along the Texas Gulf Coast.
Advocates say it will create thousands of jobs and aid energy security, but environmentalists warn of possible spills and say the pipeline will expedite development of some of the dirtiest oil available.
It added that transporting it by rail or truck would cause greater environmental problems than if the Keystone XL pipeline were built
For Obama, the votes offer a preview of what is to come on energy and environmental issues when Republicans take over the Senate next year, giving them control of Congress.
McConnell and other Republican leaders have vowed to rein in Obama's plans on the climate and pass legislation to greatly expand energy production and expedite energy exports.