Putin stations Russian warships off Australia's coast ahead of G20.
He can continue, as he always has, to argue that the work to reduce carbon emissions must be done without damaging the fragile economic recovery.
Australia's Tony Abbott and Canada's Stephen Harper in Ottawa in June 2014.
No fans of job-killing carbon taxes here
(Adrian Wyld / Canadian Press)
On that he has important supporters in Brisbane, including G20 chair Tony Abbott.
Abbott was in Ottawa in June, when he and Harper both ridiculed efforts to put a price on emissions as a job-killing carbon tax.
The Australian PM has also refused repeated calls from European leaders and others to put climate change on the agenda this weekend, insisting the focus of the summit remain squarely on economic issues and the handful of priorities he's chosen, as if promoting the economy and protecting the environment are inherently contradictory.
But where Abbott is a blunt edge, Harper's crafting of Canada's message probably requires a finer touch.
Canada's economic future depends heavily on the energy sector, in particular continued development of Alberta's oil sands while selling the product in the U.S.
and beyond
Those efforts get a boost with the Republicans about to control both houses of Congress, and with their renewed drive to pass legislation to approve the controversial Keystone XL pipeline from Alberta to American refineries on the Gulf of Mexico.
But the White House has hinted at a veto if Congress pushes ahead on Keystone, and Barack Obama has made climate change a priority of his second term, a factor that no doubt played a huge role in this week's deal with China's Xi Jinping.
Surprise?
For the first time, China has agreed to cap its emissions — by 2030 at the latest — and to diversify its energy supply to include more non-fossil fuels.
In turn, Obama is promising the US.
will reduce its emissions by up to 28 per cent below 2005 levels within the next decade, which is a much greater commitment than Canada's
For years, the Conservative government has tried to move in lockstep with the U.S.
to reduce pollution
But, unlike the U.S., Canada has yet to bring in standards for its oil and gas sector.
And environmentalists are unanimous in saying Canada won't make the more modest emission reduction targets (17 per cent below 2005 levels by 2020) that the US.
has now trumped
Earlier this month, French President Francois Hollande chided Harper about Canada's record at a news conference in Ottawa.
This US.-China deal — between the two biggest polluters on the plant — sets the bar even higher.
So what can Harper do? The prime minister surprised many of his most persistent critics at the 2008 G8 summit in Muskoka by proposing the maternal and child health initiative, which has grown to a multi-billion commitment to reduce the staggering mortality rate among new mothers and infants in the developing world.
That program remained true to Conservative principles.
No Canadian money would be used for abortions, progress would be monitored
The UN would be accountable for results
As for climate change, it isn't on the agenda in Brisbane this weekend, but it's certainly in the news.
There will be pressure from leaders and from protesters outside the conference setting for Canada to step up its commitment
Perhaps it's a chance for Harper to surprise again and set out what Canada can do, while remaining consistent with those Conservative values.